Readme.md, before:

# Contribulator

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/andrew/contribulator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/andrew/contribulator)
[![Dependency Status](https://img.shields.io/gemnasium/andrew/contribulator.svg?style=flat)](https://gemnasium.com/contribulator/contribulator)
[![Gitter chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/gitter-andrew--contribulator-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://gitter.im/andrew/contribulator)

Find open source projects that are friendly to new contributors and help make your projects more friendly too.

A score is calculated for each project based on a number of good practices to encourage more contributors.

The higher the score, the more best practices have been followed and the more likely that project is to be friendly to
new contributors.

The idea for this project was initially extracted from the Projects section of  http://24pullrequests.com/.

## Development

- Source hosted at [GitHub](https://github.com/andrew/contribulator).
- Report issues/feature requests on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/andrew/contribulator/issues).
- Discussion and support on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/andrew/contribulator).

### Getting Started

New to Ruby? No worries! You can follow these instructions to install a local server, or you can use the included
Vagrant setup.

#### Installing a Local Server

First things first, you'll need to install Ruby 2.3.0. I recommend using the excellent
[rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) and [ruby-build](https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build)

```bash
rbenv install 2.3.0
rbenv global 2.3.0
```

Next, you'll need to make sure that you have PostgreSQL installed. This can be done easily on OSX using
[Homebrew](http://mxcl.github.io/homebrew/) or by using [http://postgresapp.com](http://postgresapp.com).
Please see these
[further instructions for installing Postgres via homebrew](http://www.mikeball.us/blog/setting-up-postgres-with-homebrew/).

```bash
brew install postgres
```

On Debian-based Linux distributions you can use apt-get to install Postgres:

```bash
sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib libpq-dev
```

On Windows, you can use the [Chocolatey package manager](http://chocolatey.org/) to install Postgres:

```bash
choco install postgresql
```

Now, let's install the gems from the `Gemfile` ("gems" are synonymous with libraries in other programming languages).

```bash
gem install bundler && rbenv rehash
bundle install
```

Once all the gems are installed, we'll need to create the database and its tables. Ruby on Rails makes this easy
through the use of "Rake" tasks.

```bash
bundle exec rake db:create:all
bundle exec rake db:migrate
```

And we can also add some sample data with the **seed** task

```bash
bundle exec rake db:seed
```

Almost there! Now all we have to do is start up the Rails server and point
our browser to <http://localhost:3000>

```bash
bundle exec rails s
```

The app's probably looking a bit empty at the moment. You can run this rake task to import some more from the
service named 24 Pull Requests.

```bash
bundle exec rake projects:import_from_24pr
```

You don't have to wait for this to completely finish, when you think you've imported enough press ctrl + c to
stop the rake task.

### Tests

Standard RSpec tests are used for testing the application. The
tests can be run with `bundle exec rake`. Alternatively a [https://github.com/guard/guard](guard) configuration is provided, which depends on the result of `bundle exec spring binstub --all`, and can be used to watch tests with `bundle exec guard`

(If you find a large number of tests failing right after you've cloned the project and run migrations, try running
`rake db:schema:load`. This will reload the database schema and fix any issues relating to missing tables.)

If you are using the omniauth environment variables
(GITHUB_KEY, GITHUB_SECRET)
for **another** project, you will need to either
* unset them before running your tests or
* reset the omniauth environment variables after creating a Github (omniauth) application for this project

as it will use it to learn more about the developers and for pull requests.

### Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Send a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

## Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in
this project you agree to abide by its terms.

## Contributors

Lots of different people have contributed to this project, you can see them all here:
https://github.com/andrew/contribulator/graphs/contributors

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2015 Andrew Nesbitt. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/andrew/contribulator/blob/master/LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Add dotenv to manage environment variables on dev
Suggested here #233

Readme.md, after:

# Contribulator

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/andrew/contribulator.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/andrew/contribulator)
[![Dependency Status](https://img.shields.io/gemnasium/andrew/contribulator.svg?style=flat)](https://gemnasium.com/contribulator/contribulator)
[![Gitter chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/gitter-andrew--contribulator-brightgreen.svg?style=flat)](https://gitter.im/andrew/contribulator)

Find open source projects that are friendly to new contributors and help make your projects more friendly too.

A score is calculated for each project based on a number of good practices to encourage more contributors.

The higher the score, the more best practices have been followed and the more likely that project is to be friendly to
new contributors.

The idea for this project was initially extracted from the Projects section of  http://24pullrequests.com/.

## Development

- Source hosted at [GitHub](https://github.com/andrew/contribulator).
- Report issues/feature requests on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/andrew/contribulator/issues).
- Discussion and support on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/andrew/contribulator).

### Getting Started

New to Ruby? No worries! You can follow these instructions to install a local server, or you can use the included
Vagrant setup.

#### Installing a Local Server

First things first, you'll need to install Ruby 2.3.0. I recommend using the excellent
[rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) and [ruby-build](https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build)

```bash
rbenv install 2.3.0
rbenv global 2.3.0
```

Next, you'll need to make sure that you have PostgreSQL installed. This can be done easily on OSX using
[Homebrew](http://mxcl.github.io/homebrew/) or by using [http://postgresapp.com](http://postgresapp.com).
Please see these
[further instructions for installing Postgres via homebrew](http://www.mikeball.us/blog/setting-up-postgres-with-homebrew/).

```bash
brew install postgres
```

On Debian-based Linux distributions you can use apt-get to install Postgres:

```bash
sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib libpq-dev
```

On Windows, you can use the [Chocolatey package manager](http://chocolatey.org/) to install Postgres:

```bash
choco install postgresql
```

Now, let's install the gems from the `Gemfile` ("gems" are synonymous with libraries in other programming languages).

```bash
gem install bundler && rbenv rehash
bundle install
```

Once all the gems are installed, we'll need to create the database and its tables. Ruby on Rails makes this easy
through the use of "Rake" tasks.

```bash
bundle exec rake db:create:all
bundle exec rake db:migrate
```

And we can also add some sample data with the **seed** task

```bash
bundle exec rake db:seed
```

Now, we have to create a copy of the `.env.example` file named `.env`:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
```

Open this new file and setup your GitHub Access Token (you can generate one [here](https://github.com/settings/tokens)).
This is needed to avoid "too many requests" errors while the application tries to send requests to the GitHub API (authenticated users
 have a higher rate limit).

Almost there! Now all we have to do is start up the Rails server and point
our browser to <http://localhost:3000>

```bash
bundle exec rails s
```

The app's probably looking a bit empty at the moment. You can run this rake task to import some more from the
service named 24 Pull Requests.

```bash
bundle exec rake projects:import_from_24pr
```

You don't have to wait for this to completely finish, when you think you've imported enough press ctrl + c to
stop the rake task.

### Tests

Standard RSpec tests are used for testing the application. The
tests can be run with `bundle exec rake`. Alternatively a [https://github.com/guard/guard](guard) configuration is provided, which depends on the result of `bundle exec spring binstub --all`, and can be used to watch tests with `bundle exec guard`

(If you find a large number of tests failing right after you've cloned the project and run migrations, try running
`rake db:schema:load`. This will reload the database schema and fix any issues relating to missing tables.)

If you are using the omniauth environment variables
(GITHUB_KEY, GITHUB_SECRET)
for **another** project, you will need to either
* unset them before running your tests or
* reset the omniauth environment variables after creating a Github (omniauth) application for this project

as it will use it to learn more about the developers and for pull requests.

### Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Send a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

## Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in
this project you agree to abide by its terms.

## Contributors

Lots of different people have contributed to this project, you can see them all here:
https://github.com/andrew/contribulator/graphs/contributors

## Copyright

Copyright (c) 2015 Andrew Nesbitt. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/andrew/contribulator/blob/master/LICENSE) for details.
